# Amazon
Data analysis project that deals with cleaning, transforming data and visualization to create dashboard. The tool used is Microsoft Excel
## Project Overview
The rate at which E-Commerce is frequently used nowadays is upscaling hence, insights is required to provide notable suggestions in which online gadgets shopping use is improved and managed.
This project is on Amazon online RetailTech seeking to provide insights into the sales and customer reviews by analyzing the various parameters in the data received to generate notable data driven decision.


## Data Description
Amazon dataset is an excel spreadsheet with 1,466 rows and 16 columns with data containing productID, categories, product name, actual price, discounted price, review rating, content etc.

## Description Of Approach
### Data Cleaning
Duplicates were removed from the dataset leading to the reduction of rows to 1,352 rows. Irrelevant columns were also removed i.e image link, product link, review contents, review title and about product columns.
Misappropriate datatypes were corrected, while blanks and outliers were corrected by replacing with ‘0’ .

## CALCULATED COLUMNS
Calculated columns like Discount percentage bucket, Average discount percentage, Discount bucket, Price range bucket, Ratings and reviews per products and Potential revenue were created based on the information found in the dataset to derive insights on the price, discount and ratings.
The Potential Revenue is used to calculate the profit generated by each product in a category, Ratings and Reviews Per Products is used to determine the average rating count and ratings per product, while the Discount percentage bucket is to set a range for the discount percentage.

## EDA 
Using Pivot tables I was able to find insights from the data which are the top 5 products with the highest average discount percentage which were Home improvement with a percentage of 58%, Computer& Accessories and Health7 Personal Care both with 53%, while Electronics was 50% and Musical Instruments with 46%.

The total number of products per category was 1,351 with Electronics having 480, Home&Kitchen with 448, Computer&Accessories with 375, while products under Office products, musical instruments and Home Improvement having 2 each. Also Motorbike, toys and games alongside Health &Personal Care having 1 each.

While the total number of Products Ratings was 23802423 having Office product, Toys and Games and Home Improvement with the highest Ratings of 4.3.
Products with the highest average ratings counts are Headphones, earbuds and accessories with a total of 4548406, Mobiles & Accessories with 4290046 and Accessories & Peripheral with 3741103.The only product with reviews less than 1000 was Laptop.
Calculated Columns was created to calculate the Total Potential Revenue which is the product of actual price and discounted price per product.
The total number of unique products was 1,351 with products between the price range of 200-500 rupees a total of 342, while products less than 200 rupees a sum of 159 and products higher than 500 rupees 850.

Lastly, Products with the highest number of discount are Computer &Accessories with 94% discount, Electronics 91%, Home &Kitchen 90%, Office Products 75% and Musical Instruments with 65%. Moreover, the top 5 products with the highest ratings and reviews are Accessories & peripherals with 5013.603, Mobile &Accessories a sum of 4913.046, Headphones, Earbuds and Accessories with 4795.406, Kitchen & Appliances with 4396.556 and Home Theatre with 3296.556.



## Dashboard
[Download the file](https://github.com/moyin20/Amazon-/blob/main/Amazon%20case%20study.xlsx) and open for interactive viewing.



